Add Hybrid mode on-prem how-to (#2255)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/gateway-hybrid-setup.md

---

> title: Run {{site.base_gateway}} in Hybrid Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Run {{site.base_gateway}} in Hybrid mode
```

content_type: how_to
permalink: /gateway/install/hybrid/

> description: Configure separate Control Plane and Data Plane nodes using Hybrid Mode and mTLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Configure separate Control Plane and Data Plane nodes using Hybrid mode and mTLS
```

breadcrumbs:
  - /gateway/
  - /gateway/install/

products:
  - gateway

works_on:
  - on-prem
tags:
  - install
tldr:

>   q: How do I run {{ site.base_gateway }} in Hybrid Mode?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  q: How do I run {{ site.base_gateway }} in Hybrid mode?
```

  a: |
    Deploy {{ site.base_gateway }} twice, once with `role=control_plane` and once with `role=data_plane`.

    * The `kong.conf` file for the Control Plane must contain connection details for your database
    * The `kong.conf` file for the Data Plane must contain the Control Plane address, plus the `cluster_cert*` parameters

automated_tests: false

prereqs:
  skip_product: true
  inline:

>     - title: Install {{site.base_gateway}}
>       content: |
>         {:.warning}
>         > {{ site.base_gateway }} must be installed on both the Control Plane machine <u>and</u> the Data Plane machine before following this how-to
>          
>         To find instructions for your operating system see the [install {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/install/#linux) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - title: Install {{site.base_gateway}}
      content: |
        {:.warning}
        > {{ site.base_gateway }} must be installed on both the Control Plane machine <u>and</u> the Data Plane machine before following this how-to.
         
        To find instructions for your operating system, see the [install {{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/install/#linux) page.
```

    - title: Install PostgreSQL
      content: |

>         {{ site.base_gateway }} requires a database to run in Hybrid mode. For this how-to, please install Postgres on the same node as your Control Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        {{ site.base_gateway }} requires a database to run in Hybrid mode. For this how-to, install PostgreSQL on the same node as your Control Plane.
```

        
        To bootstrap your database, follow the [configure a datastore how-to](/how-to/configure-datastore/).

>         If you already have a database set up, set the following variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        After setting up a database, set the following variables:
```
Either way, if they have one or not, they still need to set these variables.

        ```bash
        export KONG_DATABASE=postgres
        export KONG_PG_HOST=127.0.0.1
        export KONG_PG_PORT=5432
        export KONG_PG_USER=kong
        export KONG_PG_PASSWORD=super_secret
        export KONG_PG_DATABASE=kong
        ```

faqs:

>   - q: My Data Plane says "no Route matched with those values"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - q: My Data Plane says "no Route matched with those values".
```

    a: |
      Wait 20 seconds then try again. If it continues to return this message, run `curl localhost:8001/clustering/data-planes` on the Control Plane node and check if the Data Plane is listed.
---

This how-to explains how to run {{ site.base_gateway }} on-prem in [hybrid mode](/gateway/hybrid-mode/). The quickest way to get started with hybrid mode is with {{ site.konnect_short_name }}.

{% include install/konnect-cta.html%}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you prefer not to use {{ site.konnect_short_name }}, move on to the next step.
```
Something like this, otherwise the flow is confusing.

## Create clustering certificates

{{ site.base_gateway }} uses mTLS to secure the control plane/data plane communication when running in hybrid mode.

Generate a TLS certificate using OpenSSL on the Control Plane machine:

```bash
mkdir certs && cd certs
openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -newkey ec:<(openssl ecparam -name secp384r1) \
  -keyout ./tls.key -out ./tls.crt -days 1095 -subj "/CN=kong_clustering"
cd ..
sudo mv certs /etc/kong
sudo chown -R root:root /etc/kong/certs
```

## Deploy Kong as a Control Plane

> Your Control Plane is the {{ site.base_gateway }} instance that manages configuration. Each Data Plane connects to the Control Plane using the certificates generated above to fetch it's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Control Plane is the {{ site.base_gateway }} instance that manages configuration. Each Data Plane connects to the Control Plane using the certificates generated in the previous step to fetch its configuration.
```

> To configure a {{ site.base_gateway }} instance as a Control Plane, run the following command to configure the `kong.conf`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a {{ site.base_gateway }} instance as a Control Plane, run the following command on your Control Plane machine to configure the `kong.conf` file:
```

```bash
echo "
# This is a control_plane node
role = control_plane

# These certificates are used for control plane / data plane communication
cluster_cert = /etc/kong/certs/tls.crt
cluster_cert_key = /etc/kong/certs/tls.key

# Database connection
database = $KONG_DATABASE
pg_database = $KONG_PG_DATABASE
pg_user = $KONG_PG_USER
pg_port = $KONG_PG_PORT
pg_password = $KONG_PG_PASSWORD
pg_host = $KONG_PG_HOST
pg_ssl = \"on\"

# Use this to log in to Kong Manager
password = kong_admin_password
" | sudo tee /etc/kong/kong.conf
```

Finally, restart {{ site.base_gateway }}:

```bash
sudo kong restart
```

## Create an example Service and Route

> Send the following `curl` requests on the Control Plane machine to configure a test Service and Route that is used later to confirm that the Data Plane is configured correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send the following `curl` requests on the Control Plane machine to configure a test Service and Route:
```

```bash
curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/services/ \
    --header "Accept: application/json" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
      "name": "example-service",
      "url": "http://httpbin.konghq.com"
    }'

curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/services/example-service/routes/ \
    --header "Accept: application/json" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
      "name": "example-route",
      "paths": [
        "/mock"
      ]
    }'
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After configuring both machines, we'll use these entities to confirm that the Data Plane is configured correctly.

```

## Deploy Kong as a Data Plane

Your Data Plane uses the same certificates that were provided to the Control Plane to identify itself to the Control Plane. This is known as _pinned certificate_ authentication.

> Copy the certificates from the Control Plane node in to `/etc/kong/certs` on the Data Plane node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the certificates from the Control Plane node into `/etc/kong/certs` on the Data Plane node.
```

{:.warning}
> The Data Plane will not be able to connect to the Control Plane unless the certificates are identical on both machines.

> In order to connect to the Control Plane, we need to provide it's address to the Data Plane. Replace `1.2.3.4` below with the IP address of your Control Plane:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to the Control Plane, we need to provide its address to the Data Plane. Replace `1.2.3.4` below with the IP address of your Control Plane, and run this command on your Data Plane machine:
```

```bash
export CONTROL_PLANE_IP="1.2.3.4"
```

> Finally, configure {{ site.base_gateway }} to run as a `data_plane` using the following configuration. It contains a `role`, details on how to connect to the Control Plane and which certificates to use to authenticate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, configure {{ site.base_gateway }} to run as a `data_plane` using the following configuration. 
It contains a `role`, details on how to connect to the Control Plane, and which certificates to use for authentication.

Update `kong.conf` on your Data Plane:
```

```bash
echo "
# data_plane nodes do not have a database
role = data_plane
database = off

# Tell the data plane how to connect to the control plane
cluster_control_plane = $CONTROL_PLANE_IP:8005
cluster_telemetry_endpoint = $CONTROL_PLANE_IP:8006

# Configure control plane / data plane authentication
lua_ssl_trusted_certificate = /etc/kong/certs/tls.crt
cluster_cert = /etc/kong/certs/tls.crt
cluster_cert_key = /etc/kong/certs/tls.key
" | sudo tee /etc/kong/kong.conf
```

> Start your Data Plane to connect it to the Control Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start your Data Plane to connect it to the Control Plane:
```

```bash
sudo kong start
```

## Test your deployment

> At this point you have deployed and configured a Control Plane and attached a Data Plane to it. To make sure that the connection is working, run the following command on your _Data Plane_ node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you have deployed and configured a Control Plane and attached a Data Plane to it. To make sure that the connection is working, run the following command on your _Data Plane_ node:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh
````
